@ This is a comment


Name: Gia
Age 5, Female (Caucasian) 
Gia is 5 years old and she has a medical diagnosis of Autism spectrum disorder. She lives with her older brother (Age 8), her father and her two chocolate labs. Two years ago, she lost her mother when she was hit by a drunk driver. Her dad instantly took on the role of single father to his two kids. Gia misses her mom and she often shuts down. She doesn’t fully understand why her mom is gone and she doesn’t understand the social cues of grief that her brother and dad are showing. Gia loves the movie “The Secret Life of Pets” and she gets really excited any time that it is mentioned. She also loves the color pink and she likes playing legos with her older brother. Her family spends a lot of time outdoors and she spends time hiking, skiing and boating with her dad and brother. She doesn’t like loud sounds, flashing lights, or other strong sensory experiences as she gets overstimulated easily. Gia has good general knowledge and attention skills. She prefers to work alone as she tends to struggle in social settings and communicating her needs.. Gia needs expectations for the work that she is supposed to accomplish and she needs her choices to be presented to her in a visual way. She needs additional help in augmentive communication skills, social skills with peers and adults and language and oral language skills.  She is a visual learner and loves to draw and do other visual activities. Gia has a small baby doll that she takes with her everywhere. This makes transitions and new environments more comfortable for her. She gets frustrated easily and will have “meltdowns” if she gets overstimulated. She often babbles while playing and communicating and is very shy and nervous around her peers. Gia remains in the general classroom but needs some accommodations to be successful. She needs a picture exchange system and a visual flow of the day for communication and work space. She needs her vocabulary paired with visual props or pictures. Gia also needs highly structured activities and access to sensory adaptive equipment in the classroom. She should be provided with extra time for processing and structured breaks in her day and activities. Other successful strategies for Gia include video modeling, visual strategies and prompting. 


Name: Fatima
Age 4, Female (Hispanic)
Fatima is 4 years old and will be turning 5 towards the beginning of the school year. She lives with her married hetrosexual parents and she has one older sibling and one younger sibling making her the middle child. She has a bunny that is her best friend.  Her family has moved frequently and internationally and she has already lived in multiple different places.  She loves the color yellow and loves to dress up in her own matching outfits. She is very creative and enjoys anything to do with art; as drawing pictures is an expressive means of communication for her. She doesn't like conflict with peers and she tends to shut down when this happens. She is a very bright student, is detail oriented and a diligent worker. She is approaching grade level in reading but her comprehension and ability to incorporate context is very high. Her parents stated that understanding math concepts seems to come very effortlessly to her. She is good with numbers and overall enjoys math. She becomes easily distracted when doing individual work and she loves working in teams and with other students. She is a visual and auditory learner.  Fatima is very social, respectful and caring. She can become nervous when she is uncertain about expectations.



Name: Brooks
Age 5, Male (Caucasian)
Brooks is 5 years old and lives at home with his married same-sex parents. He just recently lost his pet hamster that he was encouraged to take care of. Both of his moms are extremely devoted to him and they are focused on ensuring that he has every available opportunity. He loves to pick out his own outfits and has a very specific sense of style. He plays in a soccer league and he enjoys reading, coloring, drawing, animals, and playing outside. He does not like conflict and is very attentive to when a peer might be being left out. He excels in making friends and taking care of others around him when they are sad. Brooks is good at reading and writing. He struggles the most in math but doesn't give us and works hard in all subjects. He is a visual and hands on learner, and loves to be able to create things he can see. Brooks is extremely social and loves playing with other students of all genders. He gets nervous around male figures and tends to respond better to female teachers and student aids. He does not respond well to confrontation or being yelled at. 



Name: Marquis
Age 6, Male (African-American)
Marquis is 6 years old and recently went through the divorce of his parents. He lives with his mom mostly but is split up between both houses. He is constantly having to change where he is living and who he is living with, and his parents are not able to be in the same room for long. At both houses he has a dog. He enjoys craft and art time and he loves the color blue. He has strong fine motor skills and likes coloring and writing. He also has strong gross motor skills and enjoys recess and gym class when he can be active. Marquis does not like when things are not organized and he likes to have a set plan and routine in place. His parents have created a picture schedule of his daily routine that greatly benefits Marquis and he needs the same support at school. Even at his young age, Marquis has a fear of failure and he struggles when he can’t figure something out. Additionally, he has a fear of strangers and is most comfortable around adults and peers that he knows. Marquis needs additional support in his reading and literacy skills but loves math and numeracy skills. He is a visual and hands on learner. Marquis is usually very social and outgoing but he will get into moods where he doesn’t talk to anyone and doesn't want to participate. He is very inclusive with everyone and tends to make friends easily. He has separation anxiety and cries every morning when his mom or dad drop him off at school. However, he improves once he gets settled into his daily routine. Marquis has a short temper when he is struggling with or trying to grasp an idea or concept.




Name: Shreya
Age 5, female (Middle eastern)
Shreya is 5 years old and is extremely outgoing and extroverted. She is an only child and she lives at home with her married hetrosexual parents and her new puppy, Blue. Her parents are very involved with the local Indian community and her parents had an arranged marriage. English is her second language as she grew up speaking Hindi, however she requires little to no support due to her family speaking both English and Hindi at home. She loves to dance and perform in the community's shows and events. Her favorite color is pink, she loves her mother’s homemade dahl and naan. Her favorite animal is an alpaca. She loves arts and crafts and telling stories. She hates unfinished work and prefers to finish in one sitting. This often makes transitions difficult for her because she does not want to stop what she is working on. She can read picture books in English and her english vocabulary is approaching grade level expectations. She likes math and it is her favorite subject. She is a hands on and auditory learner. She likes to talk a lot and is very participative. She has a hard time sharing supplies and struggles to remember to use indoor voices. She often speaks loudly and needs to be reminded to keep her volume at an appropriate level.  
